---
layout: post
title: Bilinguality
---
So what is bilinguality? Many people confuse it for the knowledge of two or more langauges, but in fact it is knowledge of both or more languages as if they were your mother tongue a.k.a Simultaneous Acquisition.
This may sound like a great gift to have, and believe me, it is. But at times it can become an issue and a great cause of frustration. Confusion and muddle ups are a regular denominators whilst failure to get your point across is often the biggest issue. But lets start from the beginning.

The following things desrcibed in this text are real life facts that haven't yet been backed up (by myself) with science. This article is written for the pure pleasure of whinging but also to share how great this gift is, how fortunate I am to have it and to encourage those parents that know more than one language to teach their own children, everything, all the linguistics they possess as well as anything else they consider of great importance. Parents are the first teachers and children learn the best when very young. Language is knowledge and knowledge is power but its also opportuntity, opinion, character and one of the best things it offers you is, options. 

I can still remember those first sentences I made as a child. They were sentences but they werent correct, sometimes they were, but most of the time they really weren't. One word in one language, one word in the other, and so on and so on. Whatever language came easiest for each word, thats the one that was used. So this of course would appear problematic in a social group of children as it makes the bilingual child struggle to communicate in one language only.
Interesting fact: According to studies (that I will not mention here seeing as this is not a scientific article, phew), bilingual children will begin talking at a later date compared to monolingual children, which is fair enough if you ask me.

As a 5 year old I found that the only people that would 100% understand *my* language were my own family as it was always a mix of two separate langauges. By the age of 10, I was still using both languages in one sentance when I could but I was definitely putting more effort into speaking just one with my monolingual friends. 

As a teenager I started handling both languages like a pro. Although my vocabulary was limited, I could talk very well if not perfectly in both, read and write perfectly in both (with the help of my mother in my early years) switch from one to the other in a split second without trouble and with complete comfort. 
I might as well add that, one of the languages was the country's, therefore I had it everywhere, in education, on the telly, with my friends etc. The other was my mother's, and luckily a very popular one, in fact, it's the one I'm actually typing in here. I had many English langauge influences, schools in my birth country are big on teaching children English as soon as possible and the most popular films on television were in English with the country's subtitles in white font at the bottom of the screen (always). But I have to say, the English I know today is not due to the English I was taught in school, it is due to the effort and persistence my mother put into my early years.Consequently, today, I am writing in English and actually thinking in English. No translations are going on in my head, and I am so grateful. It is so easy, to talk, to write and just generally communicate with people in this language and if I need to switch to my birth country's language, I will in a heartbeat, just like that, no confusion and not translation in my head. 

Additionally, my accent is almost just like any other English persons, yes ok, sometimes (according to my partner) I slip up and I get some sort of weird, combination of accents falling out of my mouth but I can safely say its rare and if anything, it just makes people laugh.

Sequential Acquisition, to learn a language after the mother tongue has been established (correct me if I'm wrong here), is such a difficult thing to do, and I admire people that manage to do this very well and then end up using the second language to their advantage. I found out from some friends (Romanians) that came here to do what I did, study, that the langauge transition wasn't easy. Their first year was quite a struggle and some of them naturally found it hard to talk and communicate as well as they could in their mother tongue. I was fortunate to not have this issue. They informed me that 
